Add docs to webhook subscriptions (#409)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/extending/apps/subscription-webhook-payloads.mdx

---

> title: Subscription Webhook Payloads

Reviewer: We should include info about the version when we added it and also that this is a previe feature

---

## Custom payloads

The whole idea behind subscription payloads for webhooks is simple. We want to be able to generate custom payloads for all webhooks using our GraphQL API. With subscriptions we are able to do that.

> Our Webhook objects have a `query` field that can hold subscription query converted to string. That query will be used to build a custom webhook payload.

Reviewer 2: We should avoid saying "simple" in the docs ([see this article for instance](https://www.knowledgeowl.com/home/dont-say-simply-jim-fisher)). I would rephrase this part a bit:

Webhook payloads in Saleor can be defined with GraphQL subscriptions. Subscription queries allow you to subscribe to different events, and for each one, define what fields should be returned in the payload.

Author: You're right. Changed to proposed.

## Building subscription query

To build subscription query you can use any GraphQL interface (like e.g. Saleor playground). Just like with
building a GraphQL query you will be able to use prompts and build the whole subscription from our API. Payload generation will use resolvers/permissions that are normally used in our API.

> Inside the query you must define event type for which payload will be generated. Event type must be supported by our subscription mechanism (must be subscribable).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the query, you must define the event type for which the payload will be generated. The event type must be supported by our subscription mechanism (see the [list of supported events](developer/api-reference/unions/event.mdx)).
```

Author: fixed

Events that are currently subscribable can be found in the [List of Events](developer/api-reference/unions/event.mdx)

:::warning
Only asynchronous webhooks are able to use subscriptions at the moment. Synchronous webhooks will be supported in the future.
:::

> Subscription query example:

Author: fixed

```graphql
subscription{
  event{
    ...on ProductUpdated{
      product{
        id
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Creating webhook with subscription query

To create a webhook that will have its payload generated using subscription you need to use the same mutation as with standard webhooks. The only difference is passing `query` field as an input with subscription query converted to string.
Webhook with `query` field defined will be treated as a subscription webhook and its payload will be generated from subscription query.

Example webhook create mutation for subscription payload:

```graphql
mutation {
  webhookCreate(
    input: {
      app: "<app_id>"
      name: "test_product_updated_subscription"
      targetUrl: "<webhook_url>"
      asyncEvents: [PRODUCT_UPDATED]
      query: "subscription{event{...on ProductUpdated{product{id name}}}}"
    }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    webhook {
      id
    }
  }
}
```

Payload generated from subscription will have all the fields that you asked for, plus some meta fields.

Example payload:

> ```graphql

Reviewer: It is not graphql, it is an json

{
    "product": {
      "id": "UHJvZHVjdDo3Ng==",
      "name": "Coconut Juice"
    },
    "meta": {
      "issuedAt": "2022-03-23T14:37:27.084275+00:00",
      "version": "dev",
      "issuingPrincipal": {
        "id": "<id>",
        "type": "user"
      }
    }
  }
```

## Permissions

> Since subscriptions uses Saleor API to define webhook payload, the App that has the webhook subscribed needs all the permissions that would normally be required when querying for specified data. Otherwise payload will not be resolved correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since subscriptions use Saleor API to define webhook payload, the App that has the webhook subscribed needs all the permissions that would normally be required when querying for specified data. Otherwise, payload will not be resolved correctly.
```

Author: fixed

---
title: Subscription Webhook Payloads
---

:::note
Subscription Webhook Payloads are available in Saleor 3.2.
:::

:::caution
This feature is currently in **Feature Preview**. This part of Saleor is not complete
and subject to change but is available to experiment and provide feedback.
:::

## Custom payloads

Webhook payloads in Saleor can be defined with GraphQL subscriptions. Subscription queries allow you to subscribe to different events, and for each one, define what fields should be returned in the payload.

## Building subscription query

> To build subscription query you can use any GraphQL interface (like e.g. Saleor playground). Just like with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build a subscription query you can use any GraphQL interface (like [GraphQL Playground](developer/getting-started/playground.mdx)). Just like with
```

building a GraphQL query you will be able to use prompts and build the whole subscription from our API. Payload generation will use resolvers/permissions that are normally used in our API.

> Inside the query, you must define the event type for which the payload will be generated. The event type must be supported by our subscription mechanism (see the [list of supported events](developer/api-reference/unions/event.mdx)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Inside the query, you must define the event type for which the payload will be generated. The event type must be supported by our subscription mechanism (see the [list of supported events](developer/api-reference/unions/event.mdx)).
```

Author: fixed
